APPENDIX 

Experience with ChatGPT Before the Class (Assignment)

1. I have used ChatGPT for any reason before completing this assignment. (나는 본 과제를 수행하기 이전에 어떤 이유로든 사용한 적이 있다.)
2. I have used ChatGPT to assist with Korean writing before completing this assignment. (나는 본 과제를 수행하기 이전에 한국어 글쓰기의 도움을 받기 위해 사용한 적이 있다.)
3. I have used ChatGPT to assist with English writing before completing this assignment. (나는 본 과제를 수행하기 이전에 영어 글쓰기의 도움을 받기 위해 사용한 적이 있다.)
4. I was aware of how to use ChatGPT before completing this assignment. (나는 본 과제를 수행하기 이전에 ChatGPT의 사용방법을 알고 있었다.)
5. I was aware of the limitations of ChatGPT before completing this assignment. (나는 본 과제를 수행하기 이전에 ChatGPT의 문제점을 알고 있었다.)
   - 5-1. I was aware of the hallucination phenomenon where ChatGPT provides false information as fact. (나는 ChatGPT가 거짓 정보를 사실인 것처럼 제공하는 현상(hallucination)을 알고 있었다.)
   - 5-2. I was aware that ChatGPT has incomplete linguistic knowledge (e.g., does not fully understand sentence structure). (나는 ChatGPT가 불완전한 언어적 지식(문장구조를 정확하게 이해하고 있는 것은 아님)을 가지고 있다는 것을 알고 있었다.)
6. I have received other technological assistance for English writing before completing this assignment (e.g., Google Translate, Papago, Grammarly, Quillbot). (나는 본 과제를 수행하기 이전에 영어 글쓰기를 위해서 다른 기술적 도움을 받은 적이 있다. (구글번역, 파파고, Grammarly, Quillbot 등))
   - 6-1. If you have received such assistance, which tools did you use? (만약 받은 적이 있다면, 어떤 것의 도움을 받았는가?)

Experience with ChatGPT During the Assignment

1. ChatGPT is easy to use. (ChatGPT의 사용 방법은 쉽다.)
2. I learned a lot about non-linguistic knowledge through using ChatGPT. (ChatGPT의 사용 과정에서 (언어외의) 지식적으로 배우는 것이 많다.)
3. I learned a lot about English linguistically through using ChatGPT. (ChatGPT의 사용 과정에서 영어에 관해 언어적으로 배우는 것이 많다.)
4. I primarily used ChatGPT for the following writing process. (나는 주로 글쓰기에서 다음의 과정을 위해 ChatGPT를 사용하였다.)
   - 4-1. Brainstorming (아이디어 생성(brainstorming))
   - 4-2. Outlining (개요 작성(outline))
   - 4-3. Drafting (문장/문단 쓰기 (draft))
   - 4-4. Revision (퇴고 (revision))
   - 4-5. Evaluation (평가 (evaluation))

Evaluation of ChatGPT After Completing the Assignment

1. I feel that the proliferation of ChatGPT will pose a threat to me in the future. (나는 ChatGPT의 범람이 나에게 앞으로 위협으로 다가올 것이라고 느낀다.)
2. I feel that the use of ChatGPT will present an opportunity to me in the future. (나는 ChatGPT의 사용이 나에게 앞으로 기회로 다가올 것이라고 느낀다.)
3. I feel that using ChatGPT undermines fairness. (나는 ChatGPT를 사용하는 것이 공평함을 저해한다고 느낀다.)
4. I rate the overall performance of ChatGPT as follows. (나는 ChatGPT전반적인 성능에 대해서 다음과 같이 평가한다.)
5. I rate the performance of ChatGPT as a writing aid for English writing as follows. (나는 영어 글쓰기의 보조 도구로서 ChatGPT의 성능에 대해서 다음과 같이 평가한다.)
6. I became more familiar with how to use ChatGPT after completing this assignment. (나는 본 과제를 수행한 후에 ChatGPT의 사용방법에 대해서 더 잘 알게 되었다.)
7. I would like to use ChatGPT more frequently in general activities after completing this assignment. (나는 본 과제를 수행한 후에 앞으로 ChatGPT를 전반적인 활동에 더 많이 사용하고 싶다고 생각하게 되었다.)
8. I would like to use ChatGPT more frequently for English writing after completing this assignment. (나는 본 과제를 수행한 후에 앞으로 ChatGPT를 영어 글쓰기에 더 많이 사용하고 싶다고 생각하게 되었다.)
9. I have gained confidence in English writing after completing this assignment. (나는 본 과제 후에 영어글쓰기에 대해서 자신감을 가지게 되었다.)
10. I believe that further English study is necessary for English writing after completing this assignment. (나는 본 과제 후에 영어글쓰기를 위한 영어 학습이 꼭 필요하다고 생각하게 되었다.)
11. I believe that further English study is necessary in general after completing this assignment. (나는 본 과제 후에 영어 학습이 꼭 필요하다고 생각하게 되었다.)
12. I believe that using ChatGPT for assignments constitutes plagiarism. (나는 과제의 수행시에 ChatGPT를 사용하는 것이 표절이라고 생각한다.)
13. I believe that using ChatGPT for English writing assignments constitutes plagiarism. (나는 영어 글쓰기 과제의 수행시에 ChatGPT를 사용하는 것이 표절이라고 생각한다.)
14. I believe that the use of ChatGPT should be banned in English writing classes. (나는 영어 글쓰기 수업에서 ChatGPT사용을 금지해야한다고 생각한다.)
15. I believe that university students need formal education on how to use ChatGPT and its risks. (나는 대학생들이 ChatGPT의 사용 방법 및 위험성에 대한 공식적인 교육을 받을 필요가 있다고 생각한다.)
